Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we're going to start building our custom button block.
Let's jump into the action.
So here is our template editor.
Here's our banner block.
And you could imagine that maybe right about here someone would want to add a button.
Now, yes, WordPress does have a core or default block called Buttons and you could use that, but
that's not the point here.
So imagine that we wanted to build something way more complex than just a link, right?
Maybe you would want to take matters into your own hands and create your own custom block.
So really we're just practicing the process of creating custom blocks.
Try not to get too focused on the fact that it's just a button.
Anyways, here's how I would get started.
We've already done most of the heavy lifting.
For example, if we jump into our functions dot AP file and you scroll down to the very bottom, well,
we can just create a new instance of J BLOCK.
So new line, new J as X block, parentheses, semicolon.
Let's give it a name of generic button.
Let's give that a save before we even go create the new JavaScript file.
Before we forget, let's go into our banner file.
So in our blocks, banner tags and in the edit component.
So it's around line number 34.
Let's not forget to update the allowed blocks that you can nest inside of Banner BLOCK to include our
new button.
So in this array, just comma and then quotes the namespace our block theme slash generic button.
Give that a save.
Cool.
We can close this file.
Now let's just go ahead and create our new JavaScript file in our blocks.
In that folder, let's create a new file name in generic button.
Jess We can save a ton of typing by just jumping into generic heading, selecting everything in this
file, copying it into our clipboard, and then just paste that into generic button up at the very top.
We can leave the namespace the same, but let's update the block name.
So instead of generic heading, it would be generic button.
The title would be generic button.
These attributes look great.
We are going to need to store the text and the size.
A bit later we'll add an attribute called color, but we can cross that bridge when we get to it.
Let's go look at the edit component.
Really, all we need to change here is on the rich text component.
Let's set the allowed formats to just be an empty array.
So empty square brackets.
Let's change the tag name from H1 to an element.
Write a link or a button and then let's change the class name.
So the base class should be beaten instead of headline.
And then instead of headline dash, dash, this would be BTN Dash Dash.
Okay, now let's go look at the save component.
So we do not need this function called create tag name.
We can delete that function and we actually don't need to return rich text here.
The only reason we needed to use rich text like this in our save component is if you actually have inner
nested elements like a strong tag for bold or an m tag for italic.
Right?
In this case, we're not allowing any bold or italics or nested HTML, so we don't need to use rich
text content here.
Instead, we can literally just return an element.
Let's set the ref to just a placeholder.
Hash tag will deal with the link value a bit later on for the class name.
I would just borrow this code so I would select from class name until the end of the curly brackets
just like this.
So paste that here inside the opening and closing a tag.
So right here it would just be curly brackets, props, not attributes, dot text.
Let's give this a save and test it out.
Well, actually, before we can expect anything to happen when we save this file, we do need to go
into our package JSON file and on our start script or start task.
Just scroll over to the very end of the line at a space and let's say our blocks slash generic button
dot Jess cool with that save in place now start up a fresh instance of NPM run start.
So let me go back into the template editor and refresh.
And just click anywhere, maybe in the empty space of the banner block.
Now you have this plus symbol here.
Let's choose generic button.
So then you can just start typing.
Click me.